INSTALL.md, before:

# Installing node-oracledb

*Copyright (c) 2015, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*

You may not use the identified files except in compliance with the Apache
License, Version 2.0 (the "License.")

You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Contents

1. [Overview](#installation)
2. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs](#instrpm)
3. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip)
4. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
5. [Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client](#instosx)
6. [Node-oracledb Installation on Windows](#instwin)
7. [Advanced Installation on Linux](#linuxadv)

## <a name="overview"></a> 1. Overview

The [*node-oracledb*](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb) add-on for Node.js powers high performance Oracle Database applications.

The steps below create a Node.js installation for testing.  Adjust the
steps for your environment.

This node-oracledb release has been tested with Node 0.10 and 0.12 on
64-bit Oracle Linux and Windows.  The add-on can also build in some
Mac OS X, 32-bit Linux, 32-bit Windows, Solaris and AIX environments,
but these architectures have not been fully tested.

### Prerequisites

This installation requires Oracle 11.2 or 12.1 client libraries.
These are included in Oracle Instant Client RPMs or ZIPs, a full
Oracle Client, or a database on the same machine.  Oracle's standard
client-server network compatibility applies, which enables connection
to databases with different versions from the Oracle client library
version.

Gcc is needed on Linux.  On OS X, install Xcode.  Python 2.7 is needed
for node-gyp.  If another version of Python occurs first in your
binary path then, when you install node-oracledb, use the `--python`
option to indicate the correct version.  For example `npm install
--python=/whereever/python-2.7/bin/python oracledb`.

### Which Instructions to Follow

Instructions may need to be adjusted for your platform and environment.

I have ... | Follow this ...
----------|-----------------
Linux.  My database is on another machine.  | [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs](#instrpm)
Solaris or AIX.  My database is on another machine. | [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip)
Linux, Solaris or AIX.  My database is on the same machine. |  [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
Linux, Solaris or AIX. I have the full Oracle client (installed via runInstaller) on the same machine. |  [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
Apple OS X | [Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client](#instosx)
Windows | [Node-oracledb Installation on Windows](#instwin)
Another OS with Oracle 11.2 or 12.1 libraries available | Update binding.gyp and make any code changes required, sign the [OCA](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html), and submit a pull request with your patch.

### Other Resources Useful for node-oracledb

Node-oracledb can be installed on the pre-built
[*Database App Development VM*](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/developer-vm/index.html#dbapp) for [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org),
which has Oracle Database 12c pre-installed on Oracle Linux.   If you want to install your
own database, installing the free
[Oracle Database 11.2 'XE' Express Edition](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/express-edition/overview/index.html)
is quick and easy.  Other database editions may be downloaded
[here](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/enterprise-edition/downloads/index-092322.html).  If you want to
install Oracle Linux yourself, it is free from
[here](http://public-yum.oracle.com/).

## <a name="instrpm"></a> 2. Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs

### 2.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set PATH to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 2.2 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' RPMs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** RPMs from [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html) and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html#ic_x64_inst) as the root user:

```
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-basic-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-devel-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
```

If you have a [ULN](https://linux.oracle.com) subscription, you can
alternatively use `yum` to install these packages from the
*Oracle Software for Oracle Linux* channel for your version of Linux.

### 2.3 Install the add-on

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

Node-oracledb will automatically be configured to use the highest version
Instant Client RPMs installed.  To use a different version, follow the
instructions to
[install on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip) instead,
setting `OCI_LIB_DIR` and `OCI_INC_DIR` to the appropriate
directories.

If you have other Oracle software installed on the same machine, and
the runtime linker is configured to find this other software via
`LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or `ldconfig`, then update the environment to use
the Instant Client RPM libraries, for example
`/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib`.

### 2.4 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment.

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="instzip"></a> 3. Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files

### 3.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set PATH to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 3.2 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' ZIPs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIPs from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html)
and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html#ic_x64_inst)
into the same directory:

```
cd /opt/oracle
unzip instantclient-basic-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip
unzip instantclient-sdk-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip
mv instantclient_12_1 instantclient
cd instantclient
ln -s libclntsh.so.12.1 libclntsh.so
```

You will need `libaio` installed.  On some platforms the package is
called `libaio1`.

To run applications, you will need to set the link path:

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/oracle/instantclient:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

Alternatively, if there is no other Oracle software on the machine
that will be impacted, permanently add Instant Client to the run-time
link path.  Do this on Linux by creating a file
`/etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle-instantclient.conf` that contains the library
location `/opt/oracle/instantclient`, and then run `ldconfig` as
the root user.

### 3.3 Install the add-on


Tell the installer where to find Instant Client:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient_12_1
export OCI_INC_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient_12_1/sdk/include
```

If Instant Client is in `/opt/oracle/instantclient` and you have no
other Oracle software installed, then these variables are not
required.  See
[Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux](#linuxinstsearchpath).

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 3.4 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

*Note:* Remember to set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or equivalent first.

## <a name="instoh"></a> 4. Node-oracledb installation on Linux with a Local Database

The ORACLE_HOME can be either a database home or a full Oracle client installation installed with Oracle's `runInstaller`.

For easy development, the free
[Oracle XE](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/express-edition/overview/index.html)
version of the database is available on Linux.  Applications
developed with XE may be immediately used with other editions of the
Oracle Database.

### 4.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set your PATH variable to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 4.2 Install the add-on

The installer will automatically look for Oracle libraries and headers under
`$ORACLE_HOME`, see
[Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux](#linuxinstsearchpath).
However, if you have Instant Client RPMs installed and don't wish the RPMs
to be used, you must explicitly set two environment variables:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=$ORACLE_HOME/lib
export OCI_INC_DIR=$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/public
```

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 4.3 Run an example program

Set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` to the Oracle library directory.  This variable,
and other variables used by Oracle clients, are typically set in a
shell by executing `source /usr/local/bin/oraenv`.  Or, if you are
using Oracle XE, execute `source
/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/xe/bin/oracle_env.sh`.  The Node.js
process will need access permissions for the Oracle libraries and
other files.

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="instosx"></a> 5. Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client

### 5.1 Install Xcode

Building node-oracledb requires Xcode from the Mac App store.

### 5.2 Install Node.js

Node.js can be installed from various sources, such as via *brew*.

```
brew install node
```

Set your PATH to include the *node* and *npm* binaries:

```
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
```

### 5.3 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' ZIPs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIPs from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/intel-macsoft-096467.html)
and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/intel-macsoft-096467.html#ic_osx_inst)
into the same directory:

```
cd /opt/oracle
unzip instantclient-basic-macos.x64-11.2.0.4.0.zip
unzip instantclient-sdk-macos.x64-11.2.0.4.0.zip
mv instantclient_11_2 instantclient
cd instantclient
ln -s libclntsh.dylib.11.1 libclntsh.dylib
```

To run applications, you will need to set the link path:

```
export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/oracle/instantclient:$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

To set the path permanently for future terminal shells, add the export
command to `$HOME/.bash_profile` and re-login.

### 5.4 Install the add-on

Tell the installer where to find Instant Client:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/whereever/instantclient
export OCI_INC_DIR=/whereever/instantclient/sdk/include
```

If Instant Client is in `/opt/oracle/instantclient`, then these
variables are not needed.

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 5.5 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

*Note:* Remember to set `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` first.

To run a database on OS X, one option is to use VirtualBox,
see
[The Easiest Way to Install Oracle Database on Mac OS X](https://blogs.oracle.com/opal/entry/the_easiest_way_to_enable).

## <a name="instwin"></a> 6. Node-oracledb Installation on Windows

### 6.1 Install required tools

Install a C/C++ build environment such as Microsoft Visual
Studio 2012.  Compilers supported by Oracle libraries are found in
Oracle documentation for each version, for example
[Oracle Database Client Quick Installation Guide 12c Release 1 (12.1) for Microsoft Windows x64 (64-Bit)](https://docs.oracle.com/database/121/NXCQI/toc.htm#NXCQI108).
You will also need the matching Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual
Studio.

Install the Python 2.7 MSI from
[www.python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads).  Select the
customization option to "Add python.exe to Path".

If you decide to build a 32-bit executable, make sure to consistently
use a 32-bit stack during build and run time.

### 6.2 Install Node.js

Install the 64-bit Node.js  MSI (e.g. node-v0.12.7-x64.msi) from
[nodejs.org](http://nodejs.org/download/).  Make sure the option to
add the Node and npm directories to the path is selected.

### 6.3 Install the free Oracle Instant Client ZIPs

Skip this step if you already have Oracle Database or the full Oracle client on your machine.

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIP files from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/winx64soft-089540.html).

Extract `instantclient_basic-windows.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip` and
`instantclient_sdk-windows.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip` to the same directory.

Optionally rename the resulting directory to `C:\oracle\instantclient`

Add the directory to PATH.  For example on Windows 7, update PATH in
Control Panel -> System -> Advanced System Settings -> Advanced ->
Environment Variables -> System variables.  If you have multiple
versions of Oracle libraries installed, make sure to put the desired
version first in the path.

### 6.4 Install the add-on

Start Visual Studio and open a Developer Command Prompt within it.
(If you instead decide to use a command shell outside Visual Studio, then
run `vcvars64.bat` for 64-bit builds or `vcvars.bat` for 32-bit builds).

Use `set PATH` in the shell to confirm the Python, Node.js and Oracle
directories are correctly set.  If they are not, then set PATH
manually in the shell, or set it in the System Properties panel and
restart the command shell.

Tell the installer where to locate the Instant Client:

```
set OCI_LIB_DIR=C:\oracle\instantclient_12_1\sdk\lib\msvc
set OCI_INC_DIR=C:\oracle\instantclient_12_1\sdk\include
```

If Instant Client is in `C:\oracle\instantclient` (this should
contain, amongst others, the file `C:\oracle\instantclient\oci.dll`
and directory `C:\oracle\instantclient\sdk`), then these variables are
not needed.

If you are installing with a local database or the full Oracle client,
you must set the variables, for example using:

```
set OCI_LIB_DIR=C:\oracle\product\12.1.0\dbhome_1\oci\lib\msvc
set OCI_INC_DIR=C:\oracle\product\12.1.0\dbhome_1\oci\include
```

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

### 6.5 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="linuxadv"></a> 7. Advanced Installation on Linux

### <a name="linuxinstsearchpath"></a> Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux

On Linux, the node-oracledb installer looks for Oracle client libraries and headers in the following search order:

1. Using install-time environment variables `$OCI_LIB_DIR` and `$OCI_INC_DIR`
2. In the highest version Instant Client RPMs installed
3. In `$ORACLE_HOME`
4. In `/opt/oracle/instantclient`

### Instant Client RPMs and RPATH

On Linux, if Instant Client RPMs are auto-detected and used during
installation, then the Instant Client library directory is added to
the run time library search path via the rpath linker option.

This means that using node-oracledb with Instant Client RPMs does not
require the node-oracledb installation variables `OCI_LIB_DIR` or
`OCI_INC_DIR` to be set, and does not require `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or
`ldconfig` configuration for run time.  Installation is simply:

```
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-basic-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-devel-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
npm install oracledb
node example.js
```

### Using Instant Client RPMs without RPATH

If you want to use Instant Client RPMs without using rpath, then set
`OCI_LIB_DIR` and `OCI_INC_DIR` prior to installation, for example:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib
export OCI_INC_DIR=/usr/include/oracle/12.1/client64
npm install oracledb
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
node example.js
```

This is useful if you will need to upgrade Oracle Instant Client RPMs
to a new major or minor version (for example from 11.2 to 12.1)
without re-installing node-oracledb.

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### Forcing RPATH

If you want to force using rpath when installing node-oracledb on
Linux, then set the node-oracledb installation variable `FORCE_RPATH`
to any value.  For example:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient
export OCI_INC_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient/sdk/include
FORCE_RPATH=1 npm install oracledb
node example.js
```

Commit message:

better explained Visual C++ Redistributable requirement
node-oracledb only requires Visual C++ Redistributable when a compiler is not installed. Also, the version that seems to be required is 2010 (see https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/issues/189#issuecomment-137874533) and not the version that gets installed automatically with the Visual Studio Compiler.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Installing node-oracledb

*Copyright (c) 2015, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*

You may not use the identified files except in compliance with the Apache
License, Version 2.0 (the "License.")

You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Contents

1. [Overview](#installation)
2. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs](#instrpm)
3. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip)
4. [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
5. [Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client](#instosx)
6. [Node-oracledb Installation on Windows](#instwin)
7. [Advanced Installation on Linux](#linuxadv)

## <a name="overview"></a> 1. Overview

The [*node-oracledb*](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb) add-on for Node.js powers high performance Oracle Database applications.

The steps below create a Node.js installation for testing.  Adjust the
steps for your environment.

This node-oracledb release has been tested with Node 0.10 and 0.12 on
64-bit Oracle Linux and Windows.  The add-on can also build in some
Mac OS X, 32-bit Linux, 32-bit Windows, Solaris and AIX environments,
but these architectures have not been fully tested.

### Prerequisites

This installation requires Oracle 11.2 or 12.1 client libraries.
These are included in Oracle Instant Client RPMs or ZIPs, a full
Oracle Client, or a database on the same machine.  Oracle's standard
client-server network compatibility applies, which enables connection
to databases with different versions from the Oracle client library
version.

Gcc is needed on Linux.  On OS X, install Xcode.  Python 2.7 is needed
for node-gyp.  If another version of Python occurs first in your
binary path then, when you install node-oracledb, use the `--python`
option to indicate the correct version.  For example `npm install
--python=/whereever/python-2.7/bin/python oracledb`.

### Which Instructions to Follow

Instructions may need to be adjusted for your platform and environment.

I have ... | Follow this ...
----------|-----------------
Linux.  My database is on another machine.  | [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs](#instrpm)
Solaris or AIX.  My database is on another machine. | [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip)
Linux, Solaris or AIX.  My database is on the same machine. |  [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
Linux, Solaris or AIX. I have the full Oracle client (installed via runInstaller) on the same machine. |  [Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with a Local Database](#instoh)
Apple OS X | [Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client](#instosx)
Windows | [Node-oracledb Installation on Windows](#instwin)
Another OS with Oracle 11.2 or 12.1 libraries available | Update binding.gyp and make any code changes required, sign the [OCA](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html), and submit a pull request with your patch.

### Other Resources Useful for node-oracledb

Node-oracledb can be installed on the pre-built
[*Database App Development VM*](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/developer-vm/index.html#dbapp) for [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org),
which has Oracle Database 12c pre-installed on Oracle Linux.   If you want to install your
own database, installing the free
[Oracle Database 11.2 'XE' Express Edition](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/express-edition/overview/index.html)
is quick and easy.  Other database editions may be downloaded
[here](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/enterprise-edition/downloads/index-092322.html).  If you want to
install Oracle Linux yourself, it is free from
[here](http://public-yum.oracle.com/).

## <a name="instrpm"></a> 2. Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client RPMs

### 2.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set PATH to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 2.2 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' RPMs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** RPMs from [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html) and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html#ic_x64_inst) as the root user:

```
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-basic-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-devel-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
```

If you have a [ULN](https://linux.oracle.com) subscription, you can
alternatively use `yum` to install these packages from the
*Oracle Software for Oracle Linux* channel for your version of Linux.

### 2.3 Install the add-on

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

Node-oracledb will automatically be configured to use the highest version
Instant Client RPMs installed.  To use a different version, follow the
instructions to
[install on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files](#instzip) instead,
setting `OCI_LIB_DIR` and `OCI_INC_DIR` to the appropriate
directories.

If you have other Oracle software installed on the same machine, and
the runtime linker is configured to find this other software via
`LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or `ldconfig`, then update the environment to use
the Instant Client RPM libraries, for example
`/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib`.

### 2.4 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment.

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="instzip"></a> 3. Node-oracledb Installation on Linux with Instant Client ZIP files

### 3.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set PATH to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 3.2 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' ZIPs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIPs from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html)
and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html#ic_x64_inst)
into the same directory:

```
cd /opt/oracle
unzip instantclient-basic-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip
unzip instantclient-sdk-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip
mv instantclient_12_1 instantclient
cd instantclient
ln -s libclntsh.so.12.1 libclntsh.so
```

You will need `libaio` installed.  On some platforms the package is
called `libaio1`.

To run applications, you will need to set the link path:

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/oracle/instantclient:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

Alternatively, if there is no other Oracle software on the machine
that will be impacted, permanently add Instant Client to the run-time
link path.  Do this on Linux by creating a file
`/etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle-instantclient.conf` that contains the library
location `/opt/oracle/instantclient`, and then run `ldconfig` as
the root user.

### 3.3 Install the add-on


Tell the installer where to find Instant Client:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient_12_1
export OCI_INC_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient_12_1/sdk/include
```

If Instant Client is in `/opt/oracle/instantclient` and you have no
other Oracle software installed, then these variables are not
required.  See
[Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux](#linuxinstsearchpath).

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 3.4 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

*Note:* Remember to set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or equivalent first.

## <a name="instoh"></a> 4. Node-oracledb installation on Linux with a Local Database

The ORACLE_HOME can be either a database home or a full Oracle client installation installed with Oracle's `runInstaller`.

For easy development, the free
[Oracle XE](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/express-edition/overview/index.html)
version of the database is available on Linux.  Applications
developed with XE may be immediately used with other editions of the
Oracle Database.

### 4.1 Install Node.js

Download the
[Node.js Linux 64-bit binaries](http://nodejs.org/download/) and
extract the file, for example into `/opt`:

```
cd /opt
tar -zxf node-v0.12.7-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Set your PATH variable to include Node.js:

```
export PATH=/opt/node-v0.12.7-linux-x64/bin:$PATH
```

### 4.2 Install the add-on

The installer will automatically look for Oracle libraries and headers under
`$ORACLE_HOME`, see
[Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux](#linuxinstsearchpath).
However, if you have Instant Client RPMs installed and don't wish the RPMs
to be used, you must explicitly set two environment variables:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=$ORACLE_HOME/lib
export OCI_INC_DIR=$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/public
```

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 4.3 Run an example program

Set `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` to the Oracle library directory.  This variable,
and other variables used by Oracle clients, are typically set in a
shell by executing `source /usr/local/bin/oraenv`.  Or, if you are
using Oracle XE, execute `source
/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/xe/bin/oracle_env.sh`.  The Node.js
process will need access permissions for the Oracle libraries and
other files.

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="instosx"></a> 5. Node-oracledb Installation on OS X with Instant Client

### 5.1 Install Xcode

Building node-oracledb requires Xcode from the Mac App store.

### 5.2 Install Node.js

Node.js can be installed from various sources, such as via *brew*.

```
brew install node
```

Set your PATH to include the *node* and *npm* binaries:

```
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
```

### 5.3 Install the free Oracle Instant Client 'Basic' and 'SDK' ZIPs

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIPs from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/intel-macsoft-096467.html)
and
[install them](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/intel-macsoft-096467.html#ic_osx_inst)
into the same directory:

```
cd /opt/oracle
unzip instantclient-basic-macos.x64-11.2.0.4.0.zip
unzip instantclient-sdk-macos.x64-11.2.0.4.0.zip
mv instantclient_11_2 instantclient
cd instantclient
ln -s libclntsh.dylib.11.1 libclntsh.dylib
```

To run applications, you will need to set the link path:

```
export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/oracle/instantclient:$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

To set the path permanently for future terminal shells, add the export
command to `$HOME/.bash_profile` and re-login.

### 5.4 Install the add-on

Tell the installer where to find Instant Client:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/whereever/instantclient
export OCI_INC_DIR=/whereever/instantclient/sdk/include
```

If Instant Client is in `/opt/oracle/instantclient`, then these
variables are not needed.

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### 5.5 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

*Note:* Remember to set `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` first.

To run a database on OS X, one option is to use VirtualBox,
see
[The Easiest Way to Install Oracle Database on Mac OS X](https://blogs.oracle.com/opal/entry/the_easiest_way_to_enable).

## <a name="instwin"></a> 6. Node-oracledb Installation on Windows

### 6.1 Install required tools

Install a C/C++ build environment such as Microsoft Visual
Studio 2012.  Compilers supported by Oracle libraries are found in
Oracle documentation for each version, for example
[Oracle Database Client Quick Installation Guide 12c Release 1 (12.1) for Microsoft Windows x64 (64-Bit)](https://docs.oracle.com/database/121/NXCQI/toc.htm#NXCQI108).
If you are moving an already compiled copy of oracledb to another computer, you will need to have Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable installed.

Install the Python 2.7 MSI from
[www.python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads).  Select the
customization option to "Add python.exe to Path".

If you decide to build a 32-bit executable, make sure to consistently
use a 32-bit stack during build and run time.

### 6.2 Install Node.js

Install the 64-bit Node.js  MSI (e.g. node-v0.12.7-x64.msi) from
[nodejs.org](http://nodejs.org/download/).  Make sure the option to
add the Node and npm directories to the path is selected.

### 6.3 Install the free Oracle Instant Client ZIPs

Skip this step if you already have Oracle Database or the full Oracle client on your machine.

Download the free **Basic** and **SDK** ZIP files from
[Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/winx64soft-089540.html).

Extract `instantclient_basic-windows.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip` and
`instantclient_sdk-windows.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip` to the same directory.

Optionally rename the resulting directory to `C:\oracle\instantclient`

Add the directory to PATH.  For example on Windows 7, update PATH in
Control Panel -> System -> Advanced System Settings -> Advanced ->
Environment Variables -> System variables.  If you have multiple
versions of Oracle libraries installed, make sure to put the desired
version first in the path.

### 6.4 Install the add-on

Start Visual Studio and open a Developer Command Prompt within it.
(If you instead decide to use a command shell outside Visual Studio, then
run `vcvars64.bat` for 64-bit builds or `vcvars.bat` for 32-bit builds).

Use `set PATH` in the shell to confirm the Python, Node.js and Oracle
directories are correctly set.  If they are not, then set PATH
manually in the shell, or set it in the System Properties panel and
restart the command shell.

Tell the installer where to locate the Instant Client:

```
set OCI_LIB_DIR=C:\oracle\instantclient_12_1\sdk\lib\msvc
set OCI_INC_DIR=C:\oracle\instantclient_12_1\sdk\include
```

If Instant Client is in `C:\oracle\instantclient` (this should
contain, amongst others, the file `C:\oracle\instantclient\oci.dll`
and directory `C:\oracle\instantclient\sdk`), then these variables are
not needed.

If you are installing with a local database or the full Oracle client,
you must set the variables, for example using:

```
set OCI_LIB_DIR=C:\oracle\product\12.1.0\dbhome_1\oci\lib\msvc
set OCI_INC_DIR=C:\oracle\product\12.1.0\dbhome_1\oci\include
```

If you are behind a firewall, you may need to set your proxy, for
example:

```
npm config set https-proxy http://my-proxy.example.com:80
```

Install node-oracledb from the
[NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb):

```
npm install oracledb
```

### 6.5 Run an example program

Download the
[example programs](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb/tree/master/examples) from GitHub.

Edit `dbconfig.js` and set the database credentials to your
environment:

```
module.exports = {
  user          : "hr",
  password      : "welcome",
  connectString : "localhost/XE"
};
```

Run one of the examples:

```
node select1.js
```

## <a name="linuxadv"></a> 7. Advanced Installation on Linux

### <a name="linuxinstsearchpath"></a> Oracle Client Location Heuristic on Linux

On Linux, the node-oracledb installer looks for Oracle client libraries and headers in the following search order:

1. Using install-time environment variables `$OCI_LIB_DIR` and `$OCI_INC_DIR`
2. In the highest version Instant Client RPMs installed
3. In `$ORACLE_HOME`
4. In `/opt/oracle/instantclient`

### Instant Client RPMs and RPATH

On Linux, if Instant Client RPMs are auto-detected and used during
installation, then the Instant Client library directory is added to
the run time library search path via the rpath linker option.

This means that using node-oracledb with Instant Client RPMs does not
require the node-oracledb installation variables `OCI_LIB_DIR` or
`OCI_INC_DIR` to be set, and does not require `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or
`ldconfig` configuration for run time.  Installation is simply:

```
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-basic-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.1-devel-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
npm install oracledb
node example.js
```

### Using Instant Client RPMs without RPATH

If you want to use Instant Client RPMs without using rpath, then set
`OCI_LIB_DIR` and `OCI_INC_DIR` prior to installation, for example:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib
export OCI_INC_DIR=/usr/include/oracle/12.1/client64
npm install oracledb
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
node example.js
```

This is useful if you will need to upgrade Oracle Instant Client RPMs
to a new major or minor version (for example from 11.2 to 12.1)
without re-installing node-oracledb.

If you are installing with `sudo`, you may need to use `sudo -E` to
preserve the environment variable values.

### Forcing RPATH

If you want to force using rpath when installing node-oracledb on
Linux, then set the node-oracledb installation variable `FORCE_RPATH`
to any value.  For example:

```
export OCI_LIB_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient
export OCI_INC_DIR=/opt/oracle/instantclient/sdk/include
FORCE_RPATH=1 npm install oracledb
node example.js
```
