.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Thank you for using node-oracledb.

**See https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html for how to report security issues**.

Please answer these questions so we can help you.

Use Markdown syntax, see https://help.github.com/github/writing-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

-->

1. What versions are you using?

<!--

Give your database version.

Also run node and show the output of:

    process.platform
    process.version
    process.arch
    require('oracledb').versionString
    require('oracledb').oracleClientVersionString

-->

2. Is it an error or a hang or a crash?

3. What error(s) or behavior you are seeing?

<!--

Cut and paste text showing the command you ran.  No screenshots.

Use a gist for long screen output and logs: see https://gist.github.com/

-->

4. Include a runnable Node.js script that shows the problem.

<!--

Include all SQL needed to create the database schema.

Use a gist for long code: see https://gist.github.com/

Format code by using three backticks on a line before and after code snippets.

-->

Commit message:

Give code formatting example in Issue templates

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Thank you for using node-oracledb.

**See https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html for how to report security issues**.

Please answer these questions so we can help you.

Use Markdown syntax, see https://help.github.com/github/writing-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

-->

1. What versions are you using?

<!--

Give your database version.

Also run Node.js and show the output of:

    process.platform
    process.version
    process.arch
    require('oracledb').versionString
    require('oracledb').oracleClientVersionString

-->

2. Is it an error or a hang or a crash?

3. What error(s) or behavior you are seeing?

<!--

Cut and paste text showing the command you ran.  No screenshots.

Use a gist for long screen output and logs: see https://gist.github.com/

-->

4. Include a runnable Node.js script that shows the problem.

<!--

Include all SQL needed to create the database schema.

Use a gist for long code: see https://gist.github.com/

Format code by using three backticks on a line before and after code snippets, for example:

```
const oracledb = require('oracledb');
```

-->
