.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general-questions-and-runtime-problems.md, before:

---
name: General Questions and Runtime Problems
about: For general node-oracledb questions
title: ''
labels: question
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Thank you for using node-oracledb.

Review the user manual: https://oracle.github.io/node-oracledb/doc/api.html

Please answer these questions so we can help you.

Use Markdown syntax, see https://help.github.com/github/writing-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

-->

1. What versions are you using?

<!--

Give your database version.

Also run node and show the output of:

    process.platform
    process.version
    process.arch
    require('oracledb').versionString
    require('oracledb').oracleClientVersionString

-->

2. Describe the problem

<!-- Cut and paste text showing the command you ran.  No screenshots. -->

3. Include a runnable Node.js script that shows the problem.

<!--

Include all SQL needed to create the database schema.

Use a gist for long code: see https://gist.github.com/

Format code by using three backticks on a line before and after code snippets.

-->

Commit message:

Give code formatting example in Issue templates

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general-questions-and-runtime-problems.md, after:

---
name: General Questions and Runtime Problems
about: For general node-oracledb questions
title: ''
labels: question
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Thank you for using node-oracledb.

Review the user manual: https://oracle.github.io/node-oracledb/doc/api.html

Please answer these questions so we can help you.

Use Markdown syntax, see https://help.github.com/github/writing-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

-->

1. What versions are you using?

<!--

Give your database version.

Also run node and show the output of:

    process.platform
    process.version
    process.arch
    require('oracledb').versionString
    require('oracledb').oracleClientVersionString

-->

2. Describe the problem

<!-- Cut and paste text showing the command you ran.  No screenshots. -->

3. Include a runnable Node.js script that shows the problem.

<!--

Include all SQL needed to create the database schema.

Use a gist for long code: see https://gist.github.com/

Format code by using three backticks on a line before and after code snippets, for example:

```
const oracledb = require('oracledb');
```

-->
