doc/src/index.rst, before:

Welcome to node-oracledb's documentation!
=========================================

The `node-oracledb <https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb>`__ add-on
for Node.js powers high performance Oracle Database applications.

**node-oracledb** is distributed under an open-source :ref:`license
<license>`. Changes in the node-oracledb releases can be found in the
:ref:`release notes <releasenotes>`.

You can use assistive technology products, such as screen readers, while you
work with the node-oracledb documentation. You can also use the keyboard
instead of the mouse.

User Guide
==========

.. toctree::
    :numbered:
    :maxdepth: 3

    user_guide/introduction.rst
    user_guide/installation.rst
    user_guide/initialization.rst
    user_guide/connection_handling.rst
    user_guide/sql_execution.rst
    user_guide/plsql_execution.rst
    user_guide/bind.rst
    user_guide/batch_statement.rst
    user_guide/txn_management.rst
    user_guide/tuning.rst
    user_guide/lob_data.rst
    user_guide/json_data_type.rst
    user_guide/xml_data_type.rst
    user_guide/objects.rst
    user_guide/soda.rst
    user_guide/aq.rst
    user_guide/cqn.rst
    user_guide/two_phase_commit.rst
    user_guide/startup.rst
    user_guide/tracing.rst
    user_guide/globalization.rst
    user_guide/exception_handling.rst
    user_guide/migrate.rst
    user_guide/pgmstyle.rst
    user_guide/resources.rst
    user_guide/appendix_a.rst

API Manual
==========

.. toctree::
    :numbered:
    :maxdepth: 2

    api_manual/oracledb.rst
    api_manual/connection.rst
    api_manual/aq.rst
    api_manual/dbobject.rst
    api_manual/lob.rst
    api_manual/pool.rst
    api_manual/statistics.rst
    api_manual/resultset.rst
    api_manual/sodacollection.rst
    api_manual/sodadb.rst
    api_manual/sodadocument.rst
    api_manual/sodacursor.rst
    api_manual/errors.rst
    api_manual/deprecations.rst

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    release_notes.rst
    license.rst

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. * :ref:`modindex`

Commit message:

Add tested Node.js and Oracle DB versions in the documentation

doc/src/index.rst, after:

Welcome to node-oracledb's documentation!
=========================================

The `node-oracledb <https://www.npmjs.com/package/oracledb>`__ add-on
for Node.js powers high performance Oracle Database applications.

**node-oracledb** is distributed under an open-source :ref:`license
<license>`. Changes in the node-oracledb releases can be found in the
:ref:`release notes <releasenotes>`.

This module is currently tested with Node.js 16, 18, and 20 against Oracle
Database 23c, 21c, 19c, 12c, and 11gR2.

You can use assistive technology products, such as screen readers, while you
work with the node-oracledb documentation. You can also use the keyboard
instead of the mouse.

User Guide
==========

.. toctree::
    :numbered:
    :maxdepth: 3

    user_guide/introduction.rst
    user_guide/installation.rst
    user_guide/initialization.rst
    user_guide/connection_handling.rst
    user_guide/sql_execution.rst
    user_guide/plsql_execution.rst
    user_guide/bind.rst
    user_guide/batch_statement.rst
    user_guide/txn_management.rst
    user_guide/tuning.rst
    user_guide/lob_data.rst
    user_guide/json_data_type.rst
    user_guide/xml_data_type.rst
    user_guide/objects.rst
    user_guide/soda.rst
    user_guide/aq.rst
    user_guide/cqn.rst
    user_guide/two_phase_commit.rst
    user_guide/startup.rst
    user_guide/tracing.rst
    user_guide/globalization.rst
    user_guide/exception_handling.rst
    user_guide/migrate.rst
    user_guide/pgmstyle.rst
    user_guide/resources.rst
    user_guide/appendix_a.rst

API Manual
==========

.. toctree::
    :numbered:
    :maxdepth: 2

    api_manual/oracledb.rst
    api_manual/connection.rst
    api_manual/aq.rst
    api_manual/dbobject.rst
    api_manual/lob.rst
    api_manual/pool.rst
    api_manual/statistics.rst
    api_manual/resultset.rst
    api_manual/sodacollection.rst
    api_manual/sodadb.rst
    api_manual/sodadocument.rst
    api_manual/sodacursor.rst
    api_manual/errors.rst
    api_manual/deprecations.rst

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    release_notes.rst
    license.rst

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. * :ref:`modindex`
